<pre>
  DSD: 0020
  Title: Parcel Manifest Format
  Author: Esteban Ordano <esteban@decentraland.org>
  Status: Draft
  Type: Process
  Created: 2017-10-16
</pre>

==Abstract==

A manifest file contains the description of the contents of a land parcel. This description contains whatever models, scripts, or resources are required to provide the in-world experience the parcel's owner intended to.

==Preamble==

This document describes the format of documents linked to from the LAND contract. This manifest file serves as the main source of truth for what should be displayed for users in a land parcel. In varying implementations of a Decentrland client or compatible application, some aspects of this manifest might be ignored.

The design of this manifest file is heavily inspired by the `manifest.json` standard for HTML5. It contains concepts like pre-fetching, notes about security and consistency of the experience, and considerations about allowing access and soft constraints imposed over the contents.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8174 RFC 8174] when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

==Specification==

The manifest file format is JSON, following a particular [json-schema.org JSON Schema] containing the resources needed to display the scene. The goals of this file are:

* Describing the scene: From this file, the Decentraland clients must be able to give some basic information about the parcels. This information includes, but is not limited to,

===Assets===

One of

A JSON schema for the land parcel format follows:

```
```

Example of a land parcel description:

<pre>
{
  "assets": {
    "scene": "/ipfs/QmZ1d5v83XSM7xbKDVAdFgS1PZmCzxuF5UtYrjMtFt6d6b",
    "material_wood": "/ipfs/QmZ1d5v83XSM7xbKDVAdFgS1PZmCzxuF5UtYrjMtFt6d6b",
    "material_iron": "/ipfs/QmZ1d5v83XSM7xbKDVAdFgS1PZmCzxuF5UtYrjMtFt6d6b",
    "door_model": "/ipfs/QmZ1d5v83XSM7xbKDVAdFgS1PZmCzxuF5UtYrjMtFt6d6b",
    "favicon_asset": "/ipfs/QmZ1d5v83XSM7xbKDVAdFgS1PZmCzxuF5UtYrjMtFt6d6b",
    "background_music": "/ipfs/QmZ1d5v83XSM7xbKDVAdFgS1PZmCzxuF5UtYrjMtFt6d6b"
  },
  "owner": "0x0f5d2fb29fb7d3cfee444a200298f468908cc942",

  "contact": {
    "name": "John Doe",
    "email": "john@doe.com",
    "im": "https://chat.decentraland.org/direct/jdoe",
    "url": "https://forum.decentraland.org/topic/2/hello-decentraland"
  },

  "main": "scene",

  "position": "2,2",

  "scene": {
    "base": "2,2",
    "parcels": [
      "1,2", "1,3", "1,4",
      "2,2", "2,3", "2,4",
      "3,2", "3,3", "3,4"
    ]
  },

  "communications": {
    "type": "webrtc",
    "signalling": "https://signalling-01.decentraland.org"
  },

  "policy": {
    "contentRating": "E",
    "fly": "yes",
    "voiceEnabled": "yes",
    "blacklist": ["0,0", "1,0", "1,1", "1,1"],
    "teleportPosition": "0.5,1.4,23.12"
  },

  "display": {
    "title": "My Land",
    "favicon": "favicon_asset",
    "preview": {
      "loading": "<a-scene><a-entity position='5 0 0' rotation='0 90 0'><a-box color='#ff00aa' position='-2 0 0' /><a-box color='#00aaff' position='2 0 0' /></a-entity></a-scene>"
      "50m": "<a-scene><a-entity position='5 0 0' rotation='0 90 0'><a-box color='#ff00aa' position='-2 0 0' /><a-box color='#00aaff' position='2 0 0' /></a-entity></a-scene>"
    }
  }
}
</pre>


==Copyright==

This document is under the public domain.
