<pre>
  DSP: 0021
  Title: Loading Parcel Content
  Author: Esteban Ordano <esteban@decentraland.org>
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards
  Created: 2019-01-10
</pre>

# Loading Parcel Content

## Introduction

This document proposes a solution to what should be the process for loading parcel scenes into the Decentraland client. This involves a number of considerations:

* Content location resolution: Determine what is the latest authorized content for a particular parcel
* Incentives for content storage and bandwidth
* User experience, optimizations and showing partial progress
* Failure modes and error recovery

## Content Location Resolution 

Like IPNS, we will implement a Distributed Hash Table (DHT) in order to identify what is the latest signed information for a parcel. This means that there's no on-chain record of what is the current content that should be displayed on each parcel

The resolution of the DHT could be helped by some on-chain indicator of where to find this (an IP address or some other indication of how to create a connection). 

The server we call the "content-server" is intended to provide a gateway into a better way to store content, more centralized, but in a way that can be copied and pasted. This means that one can make a mirror of this centralized gateway.

The centralized gateway is compatible with IPFS. It stores the data on disk or on an S3 server.

2. On multiplexing scene.json files into different versions

If one has a scene.json for parcel A, there's a problem that we can't deploy into parcel B because if my address is what's making the reference then there's a problem with DHT nodes dropping the previous message.

We need to do a multiplexation of the scene.json data

3. Showing progress

We need to set up a number of assets that are mandatory to download before the scene is rendered. This allows the client to show a "progress bar" of what is being downloaded.

This is a field on the scene.json file. By default, it should be assumed that all the files in the root folder must be downloaded. Parcel developers pay a penality for creating a scene that has too many files or weights too much, as users might not get to see their scene load.  Developers should look for a specification of how to improve this performance.

Once there's a resolution about what content to display, we should provide a "download manager" that can hint that we should be prfetching some data. This would be a nice to have for scripts to handle cache invalidation.

We should be cautious about how many megabytes can one download by the client. I don't think it's too many.

## Sequence

The client should:

1. Get the following on-chain information for a parcel:
    a. Who the owner is
    b. Who the updateOperator is, if present

2. Ask the DHT or content server what the latest info is for the parcel's owner and updateOperator

3. Use this info to eemultiplex the parcel.json file for a particular parcel

4. Based on the parcel.json file, create a mapping from CID to IPFS addresses

5. Look into the "prefetch" field of the scene.json file
    a. If no "prefetch" field exists, then download all the assets inside the content folder
    b. If there is a prefetch field, download only the assets on the prefetch field

6. When all the prefetch assets are downloaded, start running the main script

7. As required by the script, download new assets. It would be great to penalize scenes from the client for doing abrupt requests, like trying to render a model that hasn't been prefetched.
