<pre>
  DSP: 0030
  Title: Entities Components and Systems
  Author: Nicolas Earnshaw <nearnshaw@decentraland.org>
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards
  Created: 2018-03-07
</pre>


# Entities Components and Systems

## Introduction

Three dimensional scenes in Decentraland are based on an [Entity-Component-System](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity%E2%80%93component%E2%80%93system) (ECS) architecture, where everything in a scene is an _entity_, and each entity can include _components_ that determine its characteristics.

An ECS is a well known and proven game development pattern for writing code that’s high-performance by default. We want to help developers create better and more robust content for Decentraland, eliminating unnecessary complications and making the learning curve as smooth as possible.

An ECS architecture is a great foundation on which to build graphical development tools, which will also improve the experience of creating content for everyone.


## Abstract

This document describes how the Decentraland SDK is structured and why we chose this architecture.

# Terminology

**Entities**:
Everything in a scene is an entity (e.g. NPCs, bullets, vehicles, etc.).

**Components**:
Every entity can hold several components which add characteristics or functionality to it.

**Systems**:
The information stored in components is changed over time by systems, these are what make scenes dynamic. Systems are able to execute functions periodically on every frame of the scene’s game loop, changing what’s being rendered.


## High level architecture of the SDK

### Entities and Components

_Entities_ are the basic unit for building everything in Decentraland scenes. All visible and invisible 3D objects and audio players in your scene will each be an entity. An entity is nothing more than a container that holds components. The entity itself has no properties or methods of its own, it simply groups several components together.

_Components_ define the traits of an entity. For example, a `transform` component stores the entity's coordinates, rotation and scale. A `BoxShape` component gives the entity a cube shape when rendered in the scene, a `Material` component gives the entity a color or texture. You could also create a custom `health` component to store an entity's remaining health value, and add it to entities that represent non-player enemies in a game.

Components are meant to store data about their parent entity. They only store this data, they shouldn't modify it themselves. All changes to the values in the components are carried out by **Systems**. Systems are completely decoupled from the components and entities themselves. Entities and components are agnostic to what _systems_ are acting upon them.

Entities are nested inside other entities to form a tree structure. If you're familiar with web development, think of entities as the equivalent of _Elements_ in a _DOM_ tree, and of components as _attributes_ of those elements.

Components like `Transform`, `Material` or any of the _shape_ components are closely tied in with the rendering of the scene. If the values in these components change, that alone is enough to change how the scene is rendered in the next frame.

### The game loop

The [game loop](http://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/game-loop.html) is the backbone of a Decentraland scene's code. It cycles through part of the code at a regular interval and does the following:

- Listen for user input
- Update the scene
- Re-render the scene

In most traditional software programs, all events are triggered directly by user actions. Nothing in the program's state will change until the user clicks on a button, opens a menu, etc.

But interactive environments and games are different from that. Not all changes to the scene are necessarily caused by a user's actions. Your scene could have animated objects that move on their own or even non-player characters that have their own AI. Some user actions might also take multiple frames to be completed, for example if the opening of a door needs to take a whole second, the door's rotation must be incrementally updated about 30 times as it moves.

We call each iteration over the loop a _frame_. Decentraland scenes are rendered at 30 frames per second whenever possible. If a frame takes more time than that to be rendered, then less frames will be processed.

In each frame, the scene is updated; then the scene is re-rendered, based on the updated values.

In Decentraland scenes, there is no explicitly declared game loop, but rather the `update()` functions on the [Systems]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url /development-guide/2018-02-3-systems %}) of the scene make up the game loop.

The compiling and rendering of the scene is carried out in the backend, you don't need to handle that while developing your scene.

### Systems

Entities and components are places to store information about the objects in a scene. _Systems_ hold functions that change the information that's stored in components.

_Systems_ are what make a static scene dynamic. They're able to execute functions periodically on every frame of the scene's game loop, changing what will be rendered over time or in response to user interaction.

Each System has an `update()` method that's executed on every frame of the game loop, following the [_update pattern_](http://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/update-method.html).


You can have multiple systems in your scene to decouple different behaviors, making your code cleaner and easier to scale. For example, one system might handle physics, another might make an entity move back and forth continuously, another could handle the AI of characters.

Multiple systems can act on a single entity, for example a non-player character might move on its own based on its AI but also be affected by gravity when trying to walk from off a cliff.

### Component groups

**Component groups** keep track of all entities in the scene that have certain components in them. Once a component group is created, it automatically keeps its list up to date with each new entity or component that is added or removed.

If you attempt to update all the entities in the scene on every frame, that could have a significant cost in performance. By referring only to the entities in a component group, you ensure you're only dealing with those that are relevant.

Component groups can be referenced by the functions in a System. Typically an `update()` function will loop over the entities in the component group, performing the same actions on each.

For example, your scene can have a `PhysicsSystem` that calculates the effect of gravity over the entities of your scene. Some entities in your scene, such as trees, are fixed, so it would make sense to avoid wasting energy in calculating the effects of gravity on these. You can then define a component group that keeps track of entities that aren't fixed and then have `PhysicsSystem` only deal with the entities in this group.

```ts
// Create component group
const movableEntities = engine.getComponentGroup(Physics)

// Create system
export class PhysicsSystem implements ISystem {
  update(dt: number) {
    // Iterate over component group
    for (let entity of movableEntities.entities) {
      // Calculate effect of physics
    }
  }
}
```

### Putting it all together

The _engine_ is what sits in between _entities_, _components_ and _component groups_ on one hand and _systems_ on the other. It calls system's functions, updates groups when entities are added, etc.

All of the values stored in the components in the scene represent the scene's state at that point in time. With every frame of the game loop, the engine runs the `update()` function of each of the systems to update the values stored in the components.

After all the systems run, the components on each entity will have new values. When the engine renders the scene, it will use these new updated values and users will see the entities change to match their new states.

```ts
// Create a group to track all entities with a Transform component
const myGroup = engine.getComponentGroup(Transform)

// Define a System
export class RotatorSystem implements ISystem {
  // The update function runs on every frame of the game loop
  update() {
    // The function iterates over all the entities in myGroup
    for (let entity of myGroup.entities) {
      const transform = entity.getComponent(Transform)
      transform.rotate(Vector3.Left(), 0.1)
    }
  }
}

// Add the system to the engine
engine.addSystem(new RotatorSystem())

// Create an entity
const cube = new Entity()

// Give the entity a transform component
cube.addComponent(new Transform({
    position: new Vector3(5, 1, 5)
  }))

// Give the entity a box shape
cube.addComponent(new BoxShape())

// Add the entity to the engine
engine.addEntity(cube)
```

In the example above, a `cube` entity and a `RotatorSystem` system are added to the engine. The `cube` entity has a `Transform`, and a `BoxShape` component. In every frame of the game loop, the `update()` function of `RotationSystem` is called, and it changes the rotation values in the `Transform` component of the `cube` entity.

Note that most of the code above is executed just once when loading the scene. The exception is the `update()` method of the system, which is called on every frame of the game loop.


## Rationale for using ECS

Previous versions of the SDK were built following a style that was inspired in React. This style of coding proved to be very difficult to master for game developers. Web developers were able to write simple scenes using this, but they needed to reinvent the wheel when it came to applying game patterns.

Apply game patterns easily

Familiarity for game devs

Build an editor




...
In previous versions of the SDK, the _scene state_ was stored in an object that was separate from the entities themselves. As of version 5.0, the _scene state_ is directly embodied by the components that are used by the entities in the scene.

